---
content_type: Chunks
title: Docs MIRACL Elliptic Curves
marketing_text:
tags: 
keywords: 
last_updated: October 21, 2015
summary: 
---

MIRACL offers full support for Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) over the prime field GF(p), and the field GF(2<sup>m</sup>), including four programs for point-counting. For more information on ECC see "Elliptic Curves in Cryptogaphy", Blake, Seroussi & Smart, London Mathematical Society Lecture Notes Series 265, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0 521 65374 6\. This can be ordered directly from the publisher. Another good source of information is from the IEEE [P1363](http://grouper.ieee.org/groups/1363/) standards documents.

### Elliptic Curves over GF(_p_) and GF(2_<sup>m</sup>_) offer many advantages over standard methods such as RSA.  

*   An Elliptic Curve provides an ideal match for the AES (Advanced Encryption Standard) block encipherment (which is implemented within MIRACL). Using a 256 bit prime provides the same security as 128-bit AES. Similarly 384 bit ECC matches 192-bit AES, and 512 bit ECC matches 256-bit AES. Note that to offer the same level of security as 512-bit ECC would require the use of RSA with keys in excess of 10,000 bits.
*   If using a general random prime _p_ of no special form, the method is not patented (which perhaps explains why no big companies are pushing it!).
*   The performance cross-over with standard methods already occurs with 160 bit ECC vs 1024-bit RSA/El Gamal. For higher security, ECC is much faster.
*   The only extra leap-of-faith required is that there exists no sub-exponential algorithm for solving the general discrete logarithm problem in ECC.

One difficulty in using ECC is that of finding a suitable Elliptic Curve. This requires the implementation of an extremely complex point-counting algorithm. Unfortunately, until now, there have been no publicly available implementations of these algorithms. But now MIRACL solves this problem. These Windows executables are placed in the public domain, and may be used freely. Curves generated using these free executables may be used for commercial purposes.

The first approach is to use the so-called Complex Multiplication method, described in Annex A of the [P1363](http://grouper.ieee.org/groups/1363/) standard. This is implemented by the free Windows '95/NT/XP command prompt utility [cm.exe](https://certivox.org/download/attachments/2458886/cm.exe?version=1&modificationDate=1350574684000&api=v2) (and the latest version from V4.81 is up to 50 times faster!). However curves found in this way have a certain limited structure, and this is generally thought to be a bad thing. Better perhaps to generate a completely random curve and directly count the points on it. In that case you might consider [schoof.exe](https://certivox.org/download/attachments/2458886/schoof.exe?version=1&modificationDate=1350574729000&api=v2) which implements Schoof's Algorithm. In the book referenced above this is described as "far too inefficient", and "unacceptably slow". But with careful implementation, its really not too bad. The number of points on a 160-bit curve can be counted in under 15 minutes on a 180MHz Pentium Pro.

The best performance can be obtained from the Schoof-Elkies-Atkin algorithm. This is much faster. It is supported by the utilities [mueller.exe](https://certivox.org/download/attachments/2458886/mueller.exe?version=1&modificationDate=1350574743000&api=v2), [process.exe](https://certivox.org/download/attachments/2458886/process.exe?version=1&modificationDate=1373980386000&api=v2), [modpol.exe](https://certivox.org/download/attachments/2458886/modpol.exe?version=1&modificationDate=1350574753000&api=v2) and [sea.exe](https://certivox.org/download/attachments/2458886/sea.exe?version=1&modificationDate=1350574767000&api=v2). See the comments at the start of the source file [sea.cpp](https://certivox.org/download/attachments/2458886/sea.cpp?version=2&modificationDate=1372928700000&api=v2) for instructions for use and for benchmark timings. This method can be used to generate suitable 512-bit curves, which are well beyond the reach of the original Schoof algorithm. This can be done using relatively modest home computing facilities.  

For GF(2_<sup>m</sup>_) curves, use the utility [schoof2.exe](https://certivox.org/download/attachments/2458886/schoof2.exe?version=1&modificationDate=1350574829000&api=v2) which implements the plain vanilla Schoof algorithm.  

An alternative is to use "standard" curves generated by others, such as those suggested below. Standard curves are also published by the American [NIST](http://csrc.nist.gov/encryption/). MIRACL can now exploit the special simple form of moduli used by these curves (for example _p_=2<sup>192</sup>-2<sup>64</sup>-1) for even greater speed.

The full source code for all four methods can be found in the MIRACL library, from where they can be re-compiled for other platforms. MIRACL includes full source code for a fast software implementation of the the [ECDSA](http://csrc.nist.gov/groups/ST/toolkit/digital_signatures.html) Elliptic Curve analogue of the Digital Signature Standard.